Report on the implemenatation:

Task 1 (Lucene):
Most of the implementation remained unchanged. I made a few changes such that now the program reads the queries from a query_file.txt. Also the it writes to a file the output being in the format specified.


Task 2 (BM25):
To score my documents using the BM25 ranking algorithm, I performed the following steps:
Step 1: Using the corpus, generate the unigram inverted index.
Step 2: For each query in the "query_file.txt" repeat the following steps,
		a) Maintain a list of unique query terms in the queries i.e qi
		b) Assume that R and ri is 0 because the relevance information isn't given
		c) Calculate K by using the formula K = k1((1-b)+ b*dl/avdl), where k1, b values are given
			and the avdl and dl values can be computed from the inverted index.
		d) Compute the value of fi and ni from the inverted index.
		e) Finally when all the variable values are computed we put it in the main BM25 equation to 
			calculate the score for that document for the given query term, and finally take a summation 
			of the scores for every term in the query.
		f) Sort the documents as per their BM25 scores in descending order.
		g) Print the top 100 scores with their scores in the following format:
			QueryID 'Q0' DocID Rank BM25_score BM25
			eg: 1 Q0 Climatechangeadaptation 1 1.26121533413 BM25

I feel that BM25 works better with a larger corpus (larger values of N) and if the stop words are removed because ni (the number of documents in which the query term occours in)
Because if stop words are removed from the corpus and the query then ni will not be very large. 
In our implementation of BM25 since R and ri are 0, the first part of the equation is log ((N - ni + 0.5)/ (ni + 0.5)) thus incase of stop words ni value can increase and the numerator (N - ni + 0.5) might be smaller than the denomenator (ni + 0.5) and as we know log of anything less than 1 is a negative number. This will result in decreasing the BM25 scores. Thus we need to make sure to remove stop words and perform BM25 on a larger corpus.


